This lesson covers creating,
deleting and persisting aliases.
If you find yourself typing
the same command over and
over again, you can create a shortcut for
it called an alias.
An alias can be thought
of as a text expander.
Creating aliases for
commands that are really long, or
that you use often is a common practice.
For example, if you type ls-l frequently,
you may want to abbreviate it to ll.
As a matter of fact,
this alias often comes predefined
in many Linux distributions.
The alias command can list or
create aliases.
If you run alias without any additional
information on the command line,
it displays the list of
current aliases that are set.
If you want to create an alias use alias,
space, the alias name equals and
the value for that alias.
Aliases don't have to be used for
just shortcuts.
They can be used to fix
common typing errors.
For example if you end up typing grpe,
when you mean to type grep,
you can create an alias, and
whenever you accidentally type grpe,
alias will fix that for
you, and spell it grep.
You can also use aliases to
make your work environment
similar to that of another platform.
For instance,
in Windows cls clears the screen, but
in Linux the equivalent command is clear.
You could create the shortcuts
to make you feel more at home.
To remove an alias type, unalias and
the name of the alias, or
to remove all aliases use,
unalias space -a.
If you were to create some aliases and
log out and
back in, your aliases would be lost.
To make them persist between sessions,
add them to your dot files,
such as .bash_profile.
The downside to creating several aliases
is that when you're on a system that does
not have your aliases,
you might feel lost.
If you want to be able to work effectively
on any Linux system that you have access
to, keep your alias usage to a minimum.
Another way to handle this
situation is to simply copy,
your configuration files to each Linux
system that you're going to work on.
Let's say you run ls-l a lot.
Let's make this an alias, make it shorter.
Let's alias ll to be ls-l.
So now when you type ll, you'll get
the same result as when you type ls-l.
Let's say you like to type cls because
you come from a Windows background.
Cls is not available on Linux.
The equivalent command is clear.
You could create an alias for
cls that equals clear.
So now when you type cls
it will clear the screen.
To list aliases just
use the alias command.
To make them persist you can
edit your bash_profile file.
Let's do this.
Let's add mycls.
We can see that, that's not set.
Let's log out and log back in.
And you can see that mycls is set.
The alias command lists and
creates aliases,
while the unaliases
command deletes aliases.
To persist your aliases between
login's add them to your dot files.